Well friends, this is the tenth episode of the Weekly Review.
Let's begin with a big shout-out.
This week, this youtube channel reached 100 000 subscribers.
It has become a laughing matter between you viewers and I,
because we all did what we had to do.
I always ask you to give me the blue thumbs up - keep doing it by the way! -
to subscribe in order to get around the official media system
by creating something that never existed in this country. And we succeeded,
because reaching the level of 100 000 subscribers amounts to
the audience of 24/7 news channels, which is quite significant.
So we are actually getting around the official media system.
I'm saying this without any aggressiveness toward this system, but we showed that it was possible.
This is all the more spectacular that - because such a phenomenon never existed in our country until now -
that the channel entered a global ranking, because there is a global ranking, you know.
And on the first hundred channels of this global ranking,
this channel is around the number 78 or 77.
Within the next few days, this channel should outpace Mrs Clinton's.
It will have more subscribers than Mrs Clinton's channel in the USA.
Of course, this is an event in the presidential election campaign,
because you are not watching this channel because I am the most pleasant youtuber or whatnot.
What we are doing has a political significance.
It doesn't mean that subscribers agree with me, but they understand what I'm trying to do,
and in this they support me, meaning they try to support a media that exists outside the official system.
So this has to do with the French presidential election.
I think we can wait a few more weeks before a number of observers wake up and understand that this is not about me but about Youtube,
because the reality of things is long in manifesting itself in this country.
Let me just say a few words about the campaign, because it has to do with the channel.
This week, the program was published as you probably know.
A political program in an election campaign is rarely considered a piece of literature,
I mean there's no pleasure in reading it.
But to the surprise of many people, no sooner was it published
that it became the top-selling political book, but also the top-selling book in all the categories.
Last week, it was just behind "Harry Potter", but I think it outdid it now, so that's a performance.
This is an event, and I think it has to do with what we are doing on this Youtube channel.
Just one last word and then I'll move on. I don't want to talk about me during the whole review.
I want to deal with the meeting we planned for the 18th of March.
On the 18th of March, we will hold a meeting at Place de la Bastille.
It is as if we had all the bad luck we could get.
So on the 18th of March - this leaves you time to get prepared - we shall meet at Place de la Bastille.
First, a scaffolding was set in order to repair the base of the July Column.
Alright... I hope this is over on the 18th of March, otherwise I'll talk about it again.
But the funniest part is that the SNCF (train company) is changing a railroad switch,
Not the week after! Not the week before! There must be a very important reason for that.
They change a railroad switch precisely on the weekend of the 18th, 19th and 20th of March!
This will paralyze the Gare de Lyon and the Gare de Bercy.
This kind of event shows that the SNCF's managers are interested in the life of the country.
They are interested in the fact that there will be more passengers than usual.
There were 120,000 of us on the 18th of March 2012!
And there were not only Parisians, but also people who came by train.
Already in 2012 they played a dirty trick on us. They refused to negotiate any reduced fare whatsoever
in order to weaken the demonstration.
The SNCF's manager is appointed by the state you know?
That's one more flunkey in the state system of this country, and...
Two train stations will be paralyzed on the day of our national meeting.
Good job! SNCF, always at customer service!
Now, we don't know what's going to happen next. Maybe they'll do up Orly Airport's runways,
or maybe they'll smash the roads to Paris. Why not?
But the right day to do that is 18th March!
Of course I could organize the meeting another day, and these schemes would fail.
I must say that it would be a good thing that some people understand that they live in a democracy,
and that certain rules need to be respected.
The railroad switches could be changed the week before or the week after.
Maintenance works don't necessarily have to be made everytime I do something for my campaign!
I'll move on now, because I'm getting grouchy for nothing,
so I'll deal with fundamental problems.
The facts that caught my attention were not those you can hear about everyday, of course.
There's no point in watching this show if you get the same information that you get on 24/7 news channels,
or on private and public TV channels.
These facts were skipped quite quickly.
The news in this country is really interesting!
The President of the Republic no longer stands as a candidate, but his Prime Minister does, but he is no longer Prime Minister!
Another PM is appointed... So you see that there is quite a fuss.
There are also the candidates to the Socialist Pary's primary election.
The head of the Socialist Party said: "Mr Macron, Mr Mélenchon, stand as candidates in the primary!"
Then right after he said "No, no, we don't want you!" to three other people who actually want to stand as candidates.
So he drives away those who want to take part in the primary, but he calls upon those who don't want to, it's...
There really is quite a fuss in this country, and that's really interesting!
However, I'll leave it aside because I'm quite uninterested!
I just want you to know about something that struck me.
You know that a referendum was organized in Italy.
The Italian Prime Minister is Mr Matteo Renzi, and it is interesting to know about him.
There are regularly newspaper articles about this kind of guy, you know,
because he's young and "modern", although he's always criticizing others very violently.
This guy passed a law on mini jobs that is a bit more severe than the French El Khomry law.
You know, these low-paid mini jobs with precarious statuses.
They're good at doing that, you know, it's "modern".
So this guy organized a referendum to modify the institutions of his country.
This reform is in fact not necessary at all,
but the European Commission in Brussels asks every country that faces difficulties...
Ok, you missed the whole thing. Let me give you a recap.
First, the European Commission puts countries in trouble by implementing lousy economic policies that cause recession.
Once these countries went into recession, public revenues decrease and budget deficits increase,
and since budget deficits increase, countries need to borrow more money or to make budget cuts.
So such was the situation in Italy. Different laws were passed, and then Mr Renzi came in office,
and he enforced the policies of the European Commission.
The Commission told him: "Mr Renzi, you have to do something, you need to change Italy's institutions".
They told Hollande the same thing, so he changed the administrative organization of the country.
He reduced the number of administrative regions, he supressed departments, reinstated them, then suppressed them again,
then half-reinstated them, then he  grouped communes together, then he divided them...
Anyway! He's just fidgeting according to the European Commission's requests - that's really a dictatorship!
So Renzi proposed this reform, but we were told that it has nothing to do with Europe.
They might claim there's no connection between the two, but still, people understood that the EU asked them to do that.
You French people might not be aware of it, but the EU also carries out coups d'état.
For instance, Greece had a president named Papandreou,
and the poor fellow had enough, so he organized a referendum, and bam! He had to resign 48 hours later.
And the same thing happened in Italy with Silvio Berlusconi, an extravagant character that I didn't approve of.
He also wanted to make changes and had to resign 48 hours afer the referendum.
This not democratic at all, but that's the way it happens.
So Renzi proposed his reform, and when people were told that it had nothing to do with Europe,
they thought "Are you kidding? We perfectly know it has to do with Europe!".
"You're asking us our opinion about the Europe that you are building, and whatever the question is, the answer is no!"
Once again, a nation voted against a reform which had apparently nothing to do with Europe,
but that was part of a whole series of reforms that were directly connected with Europe.
It is interesting and important to understand this.
This was the third referendum on the issue of Europe, and even the fourth one
if we take the Dutch referendum proposed by the EU on the agreement with Ukraine into account.
So, Greece voted against the memorandum, although Tsipras didn't care,
there was the Brexit, the vote against Renzi and the referendum in the Netherlands.
So we can see that the peoples across Europe disagree with EU reforms,
but the blackmail will continue.
"If you disagree with this Europe it means you're a nationalist and a xenophobe" and whatnot.
So the blackmail starts again, and in a way it has catastrophic effects because people still say no,
and they end up looking favorably upon all those who are considered unpleasant by European leaders
This is a new step. I bet that the upcoming presidential election in France...
Because for now, a lot of issues are discussed except this one, but believe me, we will discuss it.
There's no way they make us believe that the presidential election has nothing to do with Europe.
If I am elected, we will exit the European treaties. Besides, the debate over Europe will take place anyway.
It is not possible to avoid a debate that the French people wants to have.
I don't know if you are aware of what happened at the European level after the referendum in Italy...
Guess what happened!
Nothing! It's as simple as that!
They just looked the other way! Business as usual! I mean until the French presidential election.
Now I'll move on to another issue. A recent statistical survey just showed that poverty is increasing in France.
I mean it was published in 2015, and we are now almost in 2017.
I need to say it was published in 2015 out of intellectual honesty,
but that being said, I think the situation is probably worse now.
And I read an article in Le Monde that said that inequalities in our country had reached their highest level in the last thirty years.
Overall, the population is undergoing a pauperization process.
I'll repeat it a hundred times if need be,
but a major country that is the sixth or fifth largest economy in the world - whatever -
a country that is richer than it has ever been shouldn't have 9 million poor!
We can't just say that things went wrong.
A method, a policy led to this situation of impoverishment.
Please understand that the poor are not responsible for their poverty!
If they were just 1 or 2% of the population, you might think they had personal problems...
or that it's a shame, it's just bad luck.
You know, it was normal back in the days, there were postcards with the tramps of Paris.
Yes! There were postcards with the tramps of Paris! They really were a peculiar population.
But now we're dealing with a mass phenomenon: 9 million people!
And the situation is getting worse, meaning that the poor get even poorer.
Of course, there is an increase in poverty because unemployment is increasing...
We should remember that half of unemployed workers don't get unemployment benefits.
We often hear that "we should implement declining unemployment benefits!",
but we should remind them that half of them don't even get them!
So they should stop saying that people are unemployed because they're lazy!
But above all, we see that unemployed workers are getting poorer,
and now, there are working people who are getting poorer.
Let me show you around Paris and you'll see that a lot of people sleep in their car.
Why do you think they sleep in their car? Because they don't have a choice!
Sometimes, they don't have a home, and sometimes they can't go back home because they live too far away.
People are forced to live away from city centers where housing is affordable, but they work in city centers.
So...
Everyone should understand that poverty is a mass phenomenon that needs serious solutions.
Just listen to what other politicians say, you'll see that they don't even pronounce the word "poor", they don't care about this issue!
So we just shot a new episode of "Pas vu à la télé" (Not seen on TV). We are currently editing it and we should soon upload it on Youtube.
In this show, I interviewed the general delegate of the Abbé Pierre Foundation,
because I attended their general meeting that was held last January,
and heartbreaking videos were shown during the meeting.
If a video was made about the life of each poor person, I think that things would begin to change in this country.
By the way, send us videos about your everyday problems, we are interested.
So there was a video about a woman and her three children who lived in a freezing hovel.
Her story was really dreadful, and there was a video about a guy who didn't have a home anymore.
He was more than eighty yers old and he was treating a wound,
and he was happy because a bar had accepted to keep his belongings during the daytime, which enabled him to spend his days on public benches.
Please watch these videos!
I know that you have your own problems but...
Those who have problems feel less isolated when they watch these videos, they stop feeling responsible for their situation.
The worst thing that can happen to people in distress is that they feel responsible for his situation.
It eats at them and destroys them.
The first thing we should do in order to fight poverty is to reassure the poor.
After that, we have to settle political problems, and that's what the presidential election is about,
but this week, I wanted you to tell that poverty was increasing in this country, because few are those who deal with this issue.
OK. Now I'll move on to another issue: the sea.
My dealing with the sea and the oceans is no big surprise.
In my book "L'Ère du peuple" (The People's Era), I showed that humanity had begun exploiting the sea in a barbaric way.
Humanity has always done that, groups of people move from one place to another.
In the beginning they would pick vegetables and fruits in one place, then somewhere else.
That's humanity's history, we went from food gathering to agriculture, from hunting to breeding,
and people kept moving until the planet was covered with human beings.
Groups were large or small depending on where they were and depending on their fertility,
and this law of nature had humanity move until it reached the shores.
For instance, 50% of the French population live at less than 100 km from a shore,
and that's also the case for about 70% of the world population.
So we began exploiting the sea drilling holes to pump oil, gas and minerals, like barbarians.
Since we over-exploited the soils, we did the same with the sea.
Now if we want to exploit the sea, plant seaweeds or put machines in it, we'll have to deal with what's going on on the ground,
and we'd better do that, because the situation of the sea is going downhill.
In "L'Ère du peuple", I said that there was a dead area off the coasts of Mexico.
When I was writing the book, I knew this area was not the only one, but I didn't know that there already were 150 such areas at the time!
And now there are 400 of them!
400 areas in the sea where there is nothing!
No seaweed, no animal, nothing!
It's over! It's a complete vacuum!
Everyting was destroyed! Everything is dead!
And these are not small areas.
The area in the Gulf of Mexico is approximately as big as two French regions.
And on these 400 areas, one of them drew the attention of scientists.
This dead area is located off the coasts of India, and is the equivalent of the size of Belgium. That's quite a big area.
So what is the problem?
First, we should be honest and say that there are natural phenomena.
Water swirls up and down in the ocean.
These are long term cycles.
These phenomena sometimes completely deoxygenate some areas,
but these areas are not as big as those I mentioned before.
But now, there are 400 deoxygenated areas for two reasons.
The first  reason is global warming and climate change.
Watch out people!
The main tool that adjusts the climate is water
because 70% of the surface of the Earth is covered by water, by seas and oceans.
So global warming has an impact on the temperature of water.
Therefore, it modifies all the cycles of water, like water swirling up and down, or the cycles of salted and unsalted water, and so on.
Natural causes are therefore aggravated.
Before, these phenomena concerned small areas, but they concern much larger areas as seas and oceans are warming.
There's also the problem of what we do on land.
We throw away our wastes into the water.
In many parts of the world, there isn't any wastewater-treatment plant. Water is not purified but thrown into the sea. All of it!
Domestic wastewater as well as industrial sewage.
Besides, huge quantities of pesticides and chemical inputs are spilled into the soils because of agriculture.
So there's no need to be a smart cookie to understand that when it rains,
all these chemical products stream into waterways and end up in the sea.
The increase of dead areas is a huge problem, but we can tackle it.
On French territories I mean.
Of course, as far as international negociations are concerned, someone has to be firm and do something.
Countries cannot pollute their shores and wash their hands of the consequences on other countries.
We're all in this together!
An event in one part of the world has consequences on the rest of the world,
so let's start taking care of our own shores.
Let's commit ourselves to stop throwing our wastewater into the sea
in each and every part of the French Republic's territory.
It's not that complicated, we can do this.
This is the first objective.
The second objective is that...
For instance, there's no reason we should turn the Mediterranean into a cesspool,
and yet we will if we do nothing about this problem!
This is not a matter for discussion. We did nothing! We know the causes of the problem and what will come out of it.
The Mediterranean is going to turn into a sewer if we don't take measures to change this situation.
We need a plan to take care of this problem all around the Mediterranean,
because all the bordering countries don't have the financial means to do that.
We need to collect all the water that flows into the Mediterranean in order to preserve it.
It's really the right thing to do.
First, it's a useful investment, this money won't end up in the financial sphere.
Second, it will give a lot of work to people.
We'll have to put kilometers of pipes all around the Mediterranean in order to  collect and treat the water.
So you see that this project could be useful to the whole Mediterranean basin.
It's really important to create jobs around the Mediterranean and to have a clean project, because everyone will be satisfied.
Meanwhile, keep in mind that the number of dead areas in the sea is increasing.
I don't want to play the role of the guy who says everything goes wrong, I don't like that.
But I want people to know that we are destroying the planet.
It's not an abstract fantasy or whatnot, it's happening!
So acting is worth the shot, especially for a rich, organized country like ours, with a population that is capable of doing things.
You should understand that the upcoming events are important, the presidential election in particular.
Think! Inform yourself!
Think about what you could propose and do about this issue.
We need to do something. The ecosystem we live in is in danger. We are in danger.
The planet doesn't give a damn about you and I, you know? It really doesn't.
It could keep revolving around the Sun with no one living on it but ants and cockroaches,
or with no one at all, not even ants nor cockroaches. There will be water and... That's just the way it is, you know?
They say that life itself and the production of oxygen - the very oxygen that is badly needed in the sea -
are the result of a pollution. For thousands of years, some organisms and bacteria consumed carbon dioxide
and expelled oxygen. Well it's the other way around today.
We are those who continually expel more and more carbon dioxide.
That's all for today. As usual, give me the blue thumbs up, it helps boosting the show. Thank you for clicking.
Ask me questions, I'll answer them in a FAQ video.
The last FAQ was a success, I had fun doing it. In it, I discreetly revealed a piece of information.
I said I would visit Julian Assange in London,
and maybe Edward Snowden, but I'm not sure about that.
I said I would grant both of them French citizenship if I was elected,
which would allow them to come to France and prevent the USA from arresting them.
It is a real emergency in the case of Snowden because his visa will expire in August.
Maybe the Russians will extend it, but right now he still has this visa problem.
As for Assange, he's been locked in a tiny room for three years.
I visited him there once, and let me tell you that I'd better live in prison.
He's locked in and he can't come out of the room.
So I want to grant them citizenship, they would become French.
They did a service to us by revealing the USA was spying on France.
By the way, Le Monde wrote a series of articles that said Assange and Snowden's revelations
allowed to demonstrate that American espionage is even more important than what we thought.
They spied on Air France, on Air France's middle managers, on Israel, and so on.
They do that everywhere apparently.
So these guys must be French, and if I was elected, I would naturalize them. They would come to France,
and I would award them the Legion of Honor, because these guys are really brave.
They took huge risks in order to make all this information available to everyone.
I just want to end by showing you my little coffee mug.
Look how beautiful it is.
First, you can see that it's written "Insoumis(e)" (unsubdued, rebel).
And if you have a good look here, what can you see?
The "phi" letter from my campaign.
We sell this mug for the campaign.
This time, we avoided to put my head on it, or my name or anything.
It's just an allusion
You have it at home...
You offer someone a drink,
so you take out your "Insoumis(e)" mug, hmmm... Subtle, isn't it?
See you next week!